Hi friends
In this video we are going to learn about enum in C
So enum stands for enumeration
And it is a user defined data type. Using
enum we can assign names to integral Constants and
we can make the programme easy to read and maintain
Now this is this syntax. keyword enum followed by
name or tag and specify the constants within curly braces
and a semi colon at last.
see an example enum status
here the compiler will automatically assign the value zero to OFF
and 1 to ON. Now let us see how to declare variables
So we have two methods for that
One method is that while declaring an enumeration before putting
a semicolon, just write the variable name.
Another method is that write a separate code like this
enum name variable name semicolon. Now let us see
a programme
We have the main function and inside we are declaring
an enumeration status with Constants OFF and ON
Now we print the integral values of OFF and ON
so it will print OFF equal to zero and
ON equal to one
Now let's declare a variable var here
And assign On to var so 1 will be stored
in it. now if we print integral value of var
it will give the value 1
Now let us see another example
An enumeration day is declared with values
Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday and Saturday
So compiler will automatically give values 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 to these
constants and in enum we can also explicitly assign
values example Wednesday equal to 25
And in that case all the unassigned names will get
the value as the value of previous name plus one
So here Thursday will get value
Friday will get 27 Saturday will get 28
Now see the code
We have enumeration status with Sunday =1, Monday
Tuesday Wednesday =10 Thursday Friday and Saturday
Next we're finding the difference of Saturday and Sunday and
printing it
So what will be the value printed? see here Sunday is
explosively given value 1. so Monday will get the value
1+1 =2  and Tuesday
will get the value 3
Now wednesday = 10
So thursday will be given 11 and Friday will
be given 12
And finally Saturday will have 13
Now we can calculate the difference 13 -1 which
is equal to 12 and it will be printed
Now
What is the difference between a macro and
an enum? in macro
We need to assign the values explicitly where as in enum
the values will be assigned automatically by the compiler
And in macro we have global scope
For example here you can see this code here all
the occurrence of OFF will be replaced with zero and
enum follow scoping rules and we can redefine the
enum values based on the situation. So that's all and thankyou for watching this video.